now to talk more about this I'm joined
by kazer Arabi an Iran specialist and
irgc research director at United against
nuclear Iran a
nonprofit kazra based on your research
to what extent and how does Iran fund
Hamas well it's important to understand
that the Islamic Republic of Iran the
regime in Iran is the primary military
Financial logistical and ideological
supporter of the Hamas terrorist group
and if take a step back I want to unpack
the nature of this relationship which
really started to flourish in the early
1990s we saw pamas militants being sent
to Lebanon to undergo training by
Hezbollah but also a contingent of
militants being sent to tan to undergo
missile training by none other than the
so-called Godfather of the Iranian
ballistic missile program IC Commander
tan Madam Hamas officials have also uh
been on record
uh underscoring the fact that this
sophisticated smuggling Network that is
underground in Gaza was the product of
the late irgc GS Force Commander kasim
sumani so one of the mechanisms to get
this kind of material and financial
support to the terrorist organization
Hamas is through the sophisticated
underground networks with Israel which
Israel has tried to to counter but there
is no doubt that this has Iranian
fingerprints all over it and are these
tax dollars or oil income that Iran is
using to fund Hamas how does the money
actually reach them sure it's a
combination of both and I think the uh
oil revenue is really important here
illicit oil revenues uh since the coming
of the Biden Administration the White
House have surged so we have seen the
Iranians be able to export conservative
estimates put it at around 2 million
barrels of oil per day so that's really
at levels uh pre- sanctions so the US
Administration hasn't been enforcing
sanctions and the Islamic Republic has
been taking advantage of that and this
is consistent by the way with the surge
in funding that we see for Hamas as you
earlier
mentioned this year in the past year we
have seen Iranian funding we have seen
funding but via the irgc increase from
around 100 million dollar to $350
million you put that against the
backdrop by the way of ir changes to the
irgc's doctrine changes to the irgc's
structure and you can get a clearer
picture that clearly indicates that the
Islamic revolutionary guard call the
irgc had a hand not only in giving a
green light to the recent terrorist
attacks but also uh playing a role in
strategically uh coordinating these
attacks the Kaz briefly if you can what
role are cryptocurrencies playing in
this movement of money yeah
cryptocurrencies uh have played an
important role uh Iran is actually a
crypto mining Hub so I think the crypto
element is important they have been on
record they have spent a lot of resource
the Iranians to try and use
cryptocurrency as a means to evade
International sanctions but also they
use traditional forms of uh of exchanges
such as havala banking uh and through a
network work of regime uh
facilitators oligarchs that are spread
all over the world including in Europe
by the way um and so far these
operations have gone have undergone
without much uh without much uh
Limelight being shun on them I think the
US and the Europeans need to come
together to set up a task force to
identify the uh Iranian regime
facilitators uh not least the oligarchs
who are acting as these uh facilitators
across across Ross the world not least
in
Europe what do you know about the status
of the $6 billion dollar the US agreed
to unfreeze as part of a recent prisoner
deal with
Iran so this is an important question
because the US has obviously come on
record and stated that it has refrozen
these these uh funds and it's important
to underscore that these funds are
funable this money is funable the there
is no guarantee that the Islamic
Republic that the irgc will not be able
to access this fund These funds and then
transfer them for their uh activities
across the region which includes
terrorism and I think past us
administrations including the Obama
Administration by the way said on record
that there was no guarantee that we
could prevent the irgc from accessing
this money now the US has been very
clear in its communication has tried to
uh direct has tried to avoid directly
holding tan accountable for the
terrorist attacks uh on Israel but but I
think the very fact that the Biden
Administration has refrozen this uh 6
billion uh fund these 6 billion uh in
assets uh is indicative of the fact that
the Biden Administration acknowledges uh
the Islamic Republic's role in this so I
think this clearly implicates that
tahran did have a hand now the status of
that money uh is in question the gataris
uh have said that they this money is
still accessible to uh the regime in
Iran and I think there's a more
important Point here uh you know the US
last year in 2022 made Qatar a u major
nonn
Ally all the signs indicate the evidence
is there that the gataris are hosting
Hamas senior leadership terrorists they
are supporting the Hamas terrorist
organization in a way that is not really
that different to the Islamic Republic
of Iran so instead of being designated
as a uh major non-nato Ally I think the
US should designate the gataris as a
state sponsor of terrorism alongside the
Islamic Republic of
Iran there is another aspect to this
story that I want to address though and
that is the role that Charities play in
funding hamas's terrorist activities
what can you tell me about that this is
a really important question because once
whenever we discuss the
irgc's uh militia network uh which
includes the Hamas terrorist
organization we often focus on the hard
power assets but underpinning this hard
power asset is a soft power
infrastructure that the irgc has
carefully created uh with full support
by the way uh of all the resources of
the Islamic Republic of Iran so full
State support from the Iranian regime
and these uh soft power organizations
call them Charities play a key role in
both recruiting radic I alizing young
men for these proxy organizations and
militia organizations but also for the
transfer of funds and we saw this model
really reach its uh sophisticated Peak
if you like after the 33-day war in
Lebanon where the irgc GS Force created
the so-called reconstruction committee
for Lebanon uh which was headed by an
irgc GS Force Commander Hassan asteri
and they went into south of Lebanon to
funnel money via this enti by this Char
charity entity to Hezbollah but also
reconstruct civilian buildings to suit
and to enable the housing of irgc
missiles and this is what they've tried
to replicate in Gaza by the way in 2008
they created the Reconstruction
committee for Gaza uh where the goal was
for the irgc not only to funnel money
via these entities to Gaza not only to
recruit and radicalize Young men for
Hamas but also reconstruct civilian
buildings schools hospitals uh and
housing for ordinary civilians with the
objective of housing missiles in those
civilian buildings and we're seeing this
today in uh in in Gaza right now this is
what we're seeing is a product of this
irgc Goods force uh strategy and plan
they've carefully uh created this plan
as it makes it much harder for is is to
identify and strike Hamas positions uh
with with Min with to minimize um
civilian casualties this is all part of
the irgc strategy to use civilians to
protect its missiles and of course this
is entirely perverse strategy but it
should not be surprising given that the
fact that the irgc along with Hamas are
violent islamist extremist
organizations uh that that operate in
such a way given how much atten ition
this conflict is getting how much more
difficult will it be for Hamas to access
funds in the
future well this goes back to targeting
and imposing consequences on uh the
chief supporters of the Hamas terrorist
organization the West so far when I say
the West I saying the US and its allies
have avoided uh imposing direct
consequences on tan they have avoided
imposing consequences on Gat which is
housing the senior leadership of Hamas
and really until the US and its allies
uh maintain this strategy So to avoid uh
imposing consequences on tahran and Doha
uh this strategy of escalation will
continue the funds will still reach the
hands of the Hamas terrorists and
unfortunately um this period of
escalation will continue uh this is
completely in line with the recent
structural changes and doctrinal changes
to the irgc uh the irgc in the many
months leading to this uh terrorist
attack Was preparing for a major
confrontation with Israel all the signs
were there but unfortunately we weren't
I say we the West wasn't paying
attention uh if we really want to change
the irgc's calculus and ability to send
funds to the Hamas terrorist
organization the focus should be
targeting and imposing real consequences
that will be felt uh in tan so punishing
the Islamic revolutionary guards core
for what we are seeing today uh in
Israel how would that punishment look in
concrete
terms sure there are numerous ways uh
and numerous tools at the US's disposal
but the first uh tool should be a
concerted push to gain all European
allies and other nations in the world to
prescribe the irgc as a terrorist
organization the irgc is a violent
islamist extremist organization that
operates no differently to prescribe
groups from Hamas to Hezbollah uh it has
a program of indoctrination that calls
on its members to wage Jihad against
Jews Christians and zarrian for quote
having unacceptable faith and look at
the way it operates terrorism militancy
hostage taking it should be prescribed
as a terrorist organization this would
impose maximum cost on the irgc to
ensure that both its Financial assets
are hurt to prevent its ability to fund
terrorist organizations like Hamas but
also to curb its ability to conduct
Terror operations as well as homegrown
extremism home radicalization on
European soil that's one objective that
should be at the priority a top priority
for the US another priority for the US
should be imposing consequences on Gat
making it very very clear that they
should immediately hand over Hamas
Terror senior Hamas terrorist leadership
or else they will face consequences that
should include asset freezes in Europe
in America Etc but also there should be
a focus on targeting irgc assets these
should be irgc gluts Force assets should
be targeted in the region but also the
US should make it very clear that the
assets inside Iran irgc bases are
legitimate targets until the irgc
believes that the US will not impose uh
consequences on on its ENT on its
operations and directly on its
operations and its coordination and
strategy planning in Iran then this
process of escalation will continue we
should not tiptoe around the irgc's plan
we need to take back control uh and make
it very clear to the irgc that this is
completely unacceptable and there will
be consequences for this terrorist
attack that it had a role in
coordinating and greenlighting against
Israeli civilians kazra Arabi thank you
very
much thank
you